[IMP] Inventory: Dispatch management system (#18843)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping_receiving/setup_configuration/dispatch.rst

  <../picking_methods/batch>` to loading docks, and manage vehicle assignments based on fleet
  capacity. This ensures the right products are packed into the appropriate trucks for delivery.
- :doc:`Fleet management <../../../../hr/fleet>`: Track and manage the capacity of in-house delivery
  vehicles.

Configuration
=============

To use the dispatch management system, the following setup must be completed:

#. :ref:`Install <general/install>` the **Fleet** application.
#. Enable :ref:`necessary features <inventory/shipping_receiving/inventory-features>` in the
   **Inventory** app.
#. Enable and configure the :ref:`Mapbox integration
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/mapbox-integration>`.
#. Configure vehicle :ref:`capacity (volume and weight)
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/vehicle-capacity>`.
#. Enter vehicle :doc:`car models <../../../../hr/fleet/models>`.
#. Set up :ref:`vehicles as delivery methods
   <inventory/shipping_receiving/delivery-method-for-carrier>`.
#. Create :ref:`dock locations <inventory/shipping_receiving/docks>`.

.. important::
   Dispatch management can evaluate capacity on a vehicle **only** if a weight and volume are

>    assigned to a product on the *Inventory* tab of its product form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   assigned in the *Inventory* tab of its product form.
```

Reviewer: suggestion for concision.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/inventory-features:

Inventory settings
------------------

To set the required inventory settings, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration
--> Settings`.

> In the :guilabel:`Operations` section, select the :guilabel:`Batch, Wave & Cluster Transfers`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Operations* section, select the :guilabel:`Batch, Wave & Cluster Transfers`
```

checkbox to prepare batches of orders for delivery.

> In the :guilabel:`Shipping` section, select the :guilabel:`Delivery Methods` and :guilabel:`Dispatch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Shipping* section, select the :guilabel:`Delivery Methods` and :guilabel:`Dispatch
```

Management System` checkboxes. Doing so allows specific vehicles to be :ref:`set as carriers
<inventory/shipping_receiving/delivery-method-for-carrier>`.

> In the :guilabel:`Warehouse` section, select the :guilabel:`Storage Locations` checkbox to assign

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *Warehouse* section, select the :guilabel:`Storage Locations` checkbox to assign
```

specific locations in the warehouse as loading zones for delivery trucks.

Then, once all the configurations are complete, be sure to click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/mapbox-integration:

Mapbox integration
------------------

Next, configure the `MapBox <https://www.mapbox.com/>`_ integration.

First, `create a Mapbox account <https://account.mapbox.com/auth/signup/>`_. If you already have a
MapBox account, `log in <https://account.mapbox.com/auth/signin/>`_. Upon login, the *Account
overview* page displays.

> Then, create an access token. Click the :guilabel:`Tokens` link in the navigation to the side. On

Reviewer: Also, it might be better to link Mapbox's own documentation here on creating tokens (https://docs.mapbox.com/help/dive-deeper/access-tokens/). Feels like it would be a headache for us to update these instructions on Odoo's side if for whatever reason Mapbox updates anything on their end in the future. Just a suggestion.

Reviewer: oh nevermind... I see that there actually is a mapbox page linked below. Nevertheless, might be good to consider directly linking to that page instead of covering the instructions here again... saves us effort :)

> the *Create an access token* page, give the token a :guilabel:`Name` and grant it access to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create an access token. Click the :guilabel:`Tokens` link in the navigation to the side. On the *Access tokens* page, click *Create a token*. On
the *Create an access token* page, give the token a :guilabel:`Name` and grant it access to the
```

Reviewer: First, click the *Create a token* before landing on the *Create an access token* page.

Optionally, in the :guilabel:`Availability` tab, set the :guilabel:`Countries`, :guilabel:`States`,
or :guilabel:`Zip Prefixes` to limit the range of local delivery.

.. image:: dispatch/delivery-method.png
   :alt: Example delivery method with the Zip Prefixes set to San Francisco's zip code.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/docks:

Dock locations
--------------

Each loading dock must have a dedicated location. To create dock locations, go to

> :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Locations` and click :guilabel:`New`.

Reviewer: good place to link to an article on creating locations (https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/inventory_management/use_locations.html)

After dock locations are set up in Odoo, configure them in the operation type. Navigate to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Operations Types` and open an existing delivery

> operation type, or click :guilabel:`New` to create a new one.

Reviewer: link to an article on operation types. https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/inventory_management/operation_type.html

> After :doc:`defining the other fields in the operation type form

Reviewer: it's good that the operations type article is linked... IMO it might be better to link it in the previous sentence to better contextualize this sentence.

> <../../warehouses_storage/inventory_management/operation_type>`, scroll to the *Batch & wave

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<../../warehouses_storage/inventory_management/operation_type>`, scroll to the *Batch & Wave
```
